All right guys so now we're gonna get started on the overlay with the list items.
We have our toddler all set.
So let's go down here and let's say menu wrap and let's style the menu class itself.
So we're going to position this to fixed and set it to top 0 left 0 and set the width to 100 percent.
We want to go all the way across.
We also want to be 100 percent up and down.
So basically like an overlay.
Now initially we're going to want the visibility to be set to hit an OK.
But if I do that now I won't be able to see it to style it.
So I'm just going to comment that out for now we'll come back to it.
Let's set the overflow to hidden and let's display this as flex because we want to center everything.
So we'll say display flex and line items to the center and justify content to the center.
All right.
So go ahead and save that now you can see the list items are in the medal here.
So now we want to take care of the the menu overlay which is basically the the dark part.
OK.
So when we click this this this dark area right here.
So for that we're going to take menu wrap.
Same menu wrap menu and then it's going to be the direct div.
OK.
If you remember our menu class has to divs in it before the well.
So we're targeting that first one and we're going to set a background.
And I'm gonna use the primary color I'm sorry the overlay color.
OK.
Now if I save that you'll see that it's only overlaying the the the the menu itself.
Now I'm going to set the width to 200 and I'm going to use viewport widths here and then height.
I'm also going to set to 200 viewport widths.
Now the reason for that is I wanted to extend pretty far.
So when this is the finished one if I click this it extends you see how it scales up.
It scales up to 200 viewport widths in both the height and the the width.
So let's see now what we want to do.
You can see that this stuff has disappeared.
So we're gonna go ahead and say display flex
and let's align.
We want to line items to the center and also justify content to the center.
And now it's back.
So we're just three centering everything.
Let's see next thing we want is to add a transition here
and we're gonna do transition all zero point four seconds in ease.
Now what we want to transition is the scale.
So we want this to start off with a scale of zero.
So let's say transform and then scale and we'll if we set this to zero and I save you'll see it disappears.
So scale zero it's just it's not there it's scaled down to nothing.
And then what we want to happen is when we click this we want it to scale upwards.
So that's what's happening when you see this open it's scaling up and it's transitioning.
However I can't see anything anymore.
So again I'm going to just comment that out for now.
Just so we can see this to style it.
All right.
Now let's see I think I think that's that's good for this div.
Now the next one just copy this
and it's paste that in and target the next div
so let's see for this one we're going to text align center so we'll save that and I can see that these
are aligned in the center.
We're gonna do a Max
with let's do 90 viewport widths so it wouldn't go beyond 90 viewport widths.
And this is inside the dark inside this.
The part where scaling in the max height we're going to set to 100 viewport heights.
OK.
And we're going to set opacity to zero.
All right.
Now if I save that it disappears so again I'm going to comment that so.
OK.
The parts that are that actually this basically the starting points.
Nothing shows.
So we need to comment all that stuff out for now and then when we're ready we'll bring it back in.
Now see what else you want to do here.
We need to add a transition and we want to transition the opacity now just to let you know what's going
on here.
When we click this you'll see that it scales up but then you see how that feeds in.
It doesn't come in with the scale it feeds in afterwards.
So that's the div that we're working with right now.
So we want to transform the opacity to zero point four seconds ease.
OK.
So that way it'll just kind of fade in after this div scales in and then I think we should be good here.
So let's go back and now let's start to style what this looks like here.
So let's grab onto the the list items.
I'm going to copy this and let's put this in and we're just going to use the angle brackets I know in
order these cases we don't need to like right here but we'll just use it and we'll say well and then
ally and then we're going to remove the bullet.
So let's say list style none.
OK.
So that gets rid of the bullets.
Let's set color to whites even though that's not going to change the link color.
But just in case there is a list item that is not that is not a link.
And then we can just inherit and we can just do color inherit for the tag and we're going to set the
font size here.
So it's a font size.
Let's do one point five REM and let's do sets should be good.
Let's save that so
we need some padding here.
That's two padding
too.
Oh that's too much.
I'm kind of experimenting a little bit from my initial my initial one here because I use pixels and
now.
I want to use room.
So that looks good.
Now the links we've take care of those so it's copy this and let's say we want to target the tag and
if we say color inherit and save that's there and it turned white.
We also want to do text decoration none and save all right.
Now for the hover I want to use the secondary colors when I just grabbed this and let's do coal and
hover and let's say color far
secondary color.
All right so now when I hover over it we get that that secondary color.
But I want it to be transition so I'm going to add to the link.
A transition of well we'll just do color transition color zero point four seconds and ease snow you
get that nice transition.
So there's really only a couple things left to do.
We need to hide all of this initially which basically we just need to UN comment the things that we've
commented out and then we need to have an event.
Well not it's on tech.
Well I guess it is an event it's the checked event.
When we check this out we want that stuff to show we want it to scale up.
We want that first of to scale up the second div.
We want to bring into opacity 1.
And we also want to set the visibility from hidden to show.
All right.
I'm sorry.
Visible.
So let's UN comments opacity right here.
So that's the the inner div and then scale is the outer div and then visible.
The menu has visibility hidden.
So we're going to uncommon to all of those and save and that's going to make it all disappear.
So now we want it to come back when we click this.
So we're going to add that stuff up here.
So first one let's do
a show menu.
So we're going to say dot menu wrap.
And this is all going to happen when the toddler is checked.
So we simply want to do toddler checked.
Now we want to target the class of menu and we can't do like dot menu like that because it's not within
the toddler.
Right.
And we can't do that.
We can't even do plus because it's not directly after the hamburgers directly after.
So the way that we can target this menu from this checkbox is we're using the till day.
OK.
Which I can't remember if I actually showed you this before but we can use this to target something
that precedes another element.
So we want to grab the menu and we want to set that visibility too visible.
OK.
Because remember initially we set it to hidden.
So now we're checking we're hitting the check thing and or the checkbox and we're setting menu to visibility
visibility visible.
Now we still can't see it because it's the inner div is scaled down.
Right.
So we have to add another basically another event with this toggle are checked.
So we're going to grab this and we want to take that first div and transform scale.
And we want to scale to 1.
All right.
And then let's add a transition
duration and I'm going to use that menu speed.
So let's say var dash dash menu dash speed.
And let me just make sure I set that I did.
All right.
So if I save that case now that opens Oh you know what.
We didn't make it circular so we didn't add the border radius where we sit we were supposed to.
So we need to go to that first div and let's add border radius unless you want it to be square.
But I think it looks cool as a circle.
So it's a that's still not quite right.
All right.
I'll figure out what's wrong afterwards.
Let's add the the last one which is going to let's go back up here the last one which is gonna set the.
Which is going to bring the items in right.
Because it's set to opacity 0 so we want to target those which is gonna be the inner div and we want
to set opacity
to 1 because it's initially set to zero and let's say transition
opacity zero point four seconds ease and let's add a delay so we'll do zero point four seconds delay.
OK so now we click that it's almost working but we have an issue with the circle here.
So let me just see what what's going on here.
All right guys so since this is in a flex the width is being affected.
So all we have to do is in this initial div right here the directive after menu is add a property of
flex none.
So let's put this right here.
So if we say flex nine and save and now let's reload the page so we click this and now it scales out
all the way.
And it's not it's not bound into the the window here.
All right.
Cool so let's bring it out.
Still looks good.
Let's bring it in.
Good.
I mean we can still see the circle.
And like I said if you want to extend this like you could at a media query and extend this to like 300
yes.
So now you don't have that effect.
But it takes longer Oh it doesn't take longer.
But it goes does it go fast.
Looks like it's going faster.
No it's not.
So you could you can increase that if you don't like the circle.
You know when it's on smaller screens but I think it's fine.
I think it looks cool.
All right.
So that's it guys hopefully you enjoyed this little project in like I said feel free to use this in
you know future projects.
It's a nice little subtle menu and you could basically attach it to any UI or any Web site.
And like I said if you want to try and turn this into a full fledged web site using this menu maybe
that could be a little challenge for you.
But that's it.
I'll see you in the next video.